## Minority Report/statistics/Crime Machine Reading

**Examples:**

1.	**Google flu trends:** first launched in 2008 by Google.org to predict the outbreaks of flu by making accurate assumptions about flu activity for more than 25 countries. It gathered information mainly by analyzing the searching content that users entered into Google, which became a way for the google flu trends to track their users’ health status.

2.	**The lagging economic indicators:** such as the unemployment rate, consumer price index, and average duration of unemployment. They are the results of the past economic activity, and they can be used to predict the situation in the future.

3.**Insurance and other risk assessments:** insurance companies analyze data and estimate their future, in order to set the most competitive price in the market and to provide better insights into risk selections.

**Thoughts on Prediction:**

	I think no matter what the system that uses data for prediction is, or no matter under what circumstance that data is being used, information will automatically create a balance or a tradeoff. That is to say, if you wish that data can help you to do something, you need to get prepared for the risk of losing or sacrificing something else.

	The bias always exists. As is in the story described in the podcast The Crime Machine, CompStat do helped a lot, which is undeniable. It made the crime rate in the New York City declined drastically, and while the problem of high crime rate solved, other problems came into beings. This is what I meant for the “balance” or the “tradeoff”: nothing will be absolutely perfect, especially in a long run. A perfect use of data sometimes may be too perfect to fail. It is similar to build a house of cards (literally, no relationship with the TV series): the higher a house is built, the more risk there will be for the whole system to collapse. Jack Maple built the system of CompStat, but because this system is so perfect, nobody wants it to collapse. Therefore, the police are trying their best to protect the system by arresting people following the past statistic so that the data will keep tidy and their job will be easier; they go against the initial point of CompStat (being a responsible policeman who loves his job) and doing their job only for completing the task and for proving their efficiency. This is definitely not a good phenomenon, otherwise Pedro would not fight back, but we have to admit that it is a natural process of the development of CompStat: there will always be sacrifice, no matter the police (the high crime rate before) or the innocent average people.

	The balance can be found everywhere. Regarding to the individual fate among the average data, which is shown in the article “What Statistics Can and Can’t Tell Us About Ourselves” from The New	Yorker, if you want the data to predict an overall situation in the future, you need to sacrifice the outliers or individual cases in the data sets. Therefore, data cannot be a hundred percent used for prediction, as the future is uncontrollable. However, people nowadays are stuck in a trap: we rely on data too much. As authors write in an article on Science suggested, “we got ‘big data hubris’”. The believe that the larger the data is, the better information we can control, and a better society we can have in the future is limited and arrogant. Data now are like beautiful crystal palace that has been built by us. We trust them, admire them, proud of them, try our best to protect them, but they might fall down and attack us due to our unreasonable use of them.
