## Reading Response -  Critical Questions for Big Data

The strongest and the most direct point that I started to think about after reading the article is that raw data means nothing and everything. I want to compare raw data to a piece of blank paper which everyone can interact with it, not matter draw on it or share one’s own opinion in terms of this paper. Therefore, as Bowker said, “Raw data is both an oxymoron and a bad idea” (663), everyone can have their own understanding towards it. And the risk is that data cannot direct the way in which people use it and interpret it, so the consequence of utilizing data may cause plenty of problems. Raw data is an oxymoron, because it can offer an opportunity for people to interpret information and contains security risk to some extent. As long as the risk exist, raw data is a bad idea, as outcome could be terrible in every area of our daily life.



The data related to the recent coronavirus is bringing some problem. John Allen Paulos, a professor of mathematics writes in his article “We’re Reading the Coronavirus Numbers Wrong” which is published on the New York Times that the calculation of the “case fatality rate” (the number of death (D) / the number of infected people (I)) might be questionable, which will give an unclear or even wrong information about the situation of the virus. Because the definition of the “D” and the “I” are not clear enough, the final number of the case fatality rate varies. This can be an example to answer the question number 1, since the way one deal with raw data can cause confusion and problem.



The misleading case fatality rate can also answer the question number 2. According to Danah Boyd and Kate Crawford, “accounting tools [...] do not simply aid the measurement of economic activity, they shape the reality they measure” (665). Accounting tools, for example, take the raw material and add mathematical calculation or other functions to it, and finally measure a certain economic activity. However, due to the interaction with human and the society, big data is a more considerable system. Big data can be tightly related to the reality of their origin. The data of coronavirus is noted based on the real issue. They can reflect the condition of the disease in a certain area. Therefore, the use of data can shape the reality they measure. They are holding the truth, but it is worth noting that the use of raw data is the way that tells others what you subjectively get from the data, which could be a problem.



Regarding to the limitation of Twitter’s data, I think the most important problem is that data cannot reflects all the information shown and behind the social media platform. Twitter is a social media in which contains a lot of human behaviors depending on all kinds of relationships and motivations, which is way more complicated than what it shows on the surface and in the data. For example. Twitter does not represent “all people”, as one may have several accounts, or the level of activeness varies individually (670 Boyd and Crawford). As is mentioned in the article, data shows that workers spend more time with colleagues than their spouse, but it cannot tell that colleagues are more important (671). Individual behavior and emotion cannot be correctly analyzed with numbers and algorithm. Data cannot show the intention behind the behavior shown on Twitter, which is why Twitter data is limited.



Before answer the question number 4, I personally think that the environment we are currently staying at is an open platform to all the data. For instance, I can always get phone calls from strange numbers which asks me whether I would like to learn English or take courses in tutorial centers. Similar phone calls will also ask my mom whether she would like to sell her house or buy a new one. What these calls have in common is that they all know exactly what our name is, how old we are, and even where we live. It is annoying, but I have got use to it. I have got use to the fact that the data and information of myself is transparent already. This reminds me of the movie Ghost in the Shell. Every time that the scientists want to hack into Major’s body to get some function repaired, they will seemingly ask for Major’s consent; however, it finally turns out that no consent is actually needed, and they can even kill Major without her acceptance. So as our data, as they are accessible everywhere, and these so-called privacy policies are mostly (not 100%) risky. Under this circumstance from my point of view, I think it is easier for me to answer the question number 4, as we are already facing the problem of information privacy and consent. Data are free, but not completely free to use. The only thing that can restrict the inappropriate use of data is ethic. One can obtain certain data easily, but whether it is “free” enough to use it depends on the moral standard, which is hard to define without certain examples.



The chapter 6 of the article offers me a new way of viewing the distribution of data. It is suggested that the access to big data is uneven, as some of the companies hold the data and can decide who to share, while some others can hardly get any data (674). Combining the unevenness of data distribution with what I mentioned in the last paragraph, the situation is quite interesting: those who really need data for social science research can get little access to the data they want, while those who are going to use data inappropriately, like the phone calls that know everything about me, can easily get the data, no matter by buying those data from others or by hacking. I have to admit that there might be some cultural differences, since my example happen in China while the article mostly shows the situation in other countries. However, it does show the problem that data is currently not being used in an appropriate way. Researches are hard to continue due to the lack of data, and we common people are living in an environment where someone holds all the data of us, which is scary and ironic.



Reference

Boyd, Danah & Kate Crawford. “Critical Questions for Big Data”, Information, Communication & Society, 15:5, 662-679, DOI: 10.1080/1369118X.2012.678878

Paulos, John Allen. “We’ re Reading the Coronavirus Numbers Wrong”, New York Times. Feb. 18, 2020.
